feat: Add airgap docs (#150)
kubewarden/docs: docs/operator-manual/airgap/02-install.md

---
sidebar_label: "Installation"
title: ""
---

# Air gap installation

> This guide will show you how to install Kubewarden in air gap environments. In an air gap installation of Kubewarden, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will show you how to install Kubewarden in air-gapped environments. In an air-gapped installation of Kubewarden, 
```

> you will need a private OCI registry that is located somewhere accessible by your kubernetes cluster. Kubewarden Policies 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you will need a private OCI registry accessible by your Kubernetes cluster. Kubewarden Policies 
```

> are WebAssembly modules, therefore they can be stored inside of an OCI compliant registry as OCI artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are WebAssembly modules; therefore, they can be stored inside an OCI-compliant registry as OCI artifacts.
```

You need to add Kubewarden's images and policies to this OCI registry. Let's see how to do that.

## Save container images in your workstation

> 1. Download `kubewarden-images.txt` from the Kubewarden [release page](https://github.com/kubewarden/helm-charts/releases/). Alternatively, you can find `imagelist.txt` and `policylist.txt` files shipped inside the helm charts, that contain the used container images and policy wasm modules respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download `kubewarden-images.txt` from the Kubewarden [release page](https://github.com/kubewarden/helm-charts/releases/). Alternatively, the `imagelist.txt` and `policylist.txt` files are shipped inside the helm charts containing the used container images and policy wasm modules, respectively.
```

:::note
Optionally, you can verify the signatures of the [helm charts](../../security/verifying-kubewarden#helm-charts) and [container images](../../security/verifying-kubewarden#container-images)
:::
2. Add `cert-manager` if it is not available in your private registry. 
```
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update
helm pull jetstack/cert-manager
helm template ./cert-manager-<Version>.tgz | awk '$1 ~ /image:/ {print $2}' | sed s/\"//g >> ./kubewarden-images.txt
```
3. Download `kubewarden-save-images.sh` and `kubewarden-load-images.sh` from the latest kwctl [release](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/releases).

> 4. Save Kubewarden container images into a tar.gz file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Save Kubewarden container images into a .tar.gz file:
```

```
./kubewarden-save-images.sh --image-list ./kubewarden-images.txt --images kubewarden-images.tar.gz
```
Docker begins pulling the images used for an air gap install. Be patient. This process takes a few minutes. 

> When the process completes, your current directory will output a tarball named `kubewarden-images.tar.gz`. Check that the output is in the directory.

Reviewer: Reworded it for clarity.
```suggestion
When the process completes, your current directory will output a tarball named `kubewarden-images.tar.gz`. It will be present in the same directory where you executed the command.
```

## Save policies in your workstation

1. Add all the policies you want to use in a `policies.txt` file. 

> Example: (TODO add link to default policies.txt once it is available) 

Reviewer 2: Leaving this comment as a reminder that there's a TODO that needs to be removed before the final publishing

```
registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.2.2
registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/safe-labels:v0.1.5
```
2. Download `kubewarden-save-policies.sh` and `kubewarden-load-policies.sh` from the [kwctl repository](https://github.com/kubewarden/kwctl/tree/main/scripts)

> 3. Save policies into a tar.gz file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Save policies into a .tar.gz file:
```

```
./kubewarden-save-policies.sh --policies-list policies.txt
```

> kwctl downloads all the policies and stores then in `kubewarden-policies.tar.gz`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kwctl downloads all the policies and stores them as `kubewarden-policies.tar.gz` archive.
```

## Helm charts

You need to download the following helm charts in your workstation:

```
helm pull kubewarden/kubewarden-crds         
helm pull kubewarden/kubewarden-controller
helm pull kubewarden/kubewarden-defaults  
```

Download `cert-manager` if it is not installed in the air gap cluster.

```
helm pull jetstack/cert-manager
```

## Populate private registry

Move `kubewarden-policies.tar.gz`, `kubewarden-images.tar.gz`, `kubewarden-load-images.sh`, `kubewarden-load-policies.sh` and `policies.txt`
to the air gap environment.

1. Load Kubewarden images into the private registry. Docker client must be authenticated against the local registry
```
./kubewarden-load-images.sh --image-list ./kubewarden-images.txt --images kubewarden-images.tar.gz --registry <REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>
```
2. Load Kubewarden policies into the private registry  
```
./kubewarden-load-policies.sh --policies kubewarden-policies.tar.gz --policies-list policies.txt --registry <REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT> --sources-path sources.yml 
```

:::caution
The `sources.yaml` file is needed by kwctl to connect to registries that fall into these categories:

> * Authentication required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Authentication is required
```

* Self signed certificate is being used
* No TLS termination is done

> Please refer to [this section](../../distributing-policies/custom-certificate-authorities.md) of our documentation to learn more about how to configure the `sources.yaml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to [the section on custom certificate authorities](../../distributing-policies/custom-certificate-authorities.md) in our documentation to learn more about configuring the `sources.yaml` file
```

Kubewarden installation is that we need to change the registry in the container images and policies to our private registry.

Install `cert-manager` if it is not already installed in the air gap cluster:

```
helm install --create-namespace cert-manager ./cert-manager-<Version>.tgz \
    -n kubewarden \
    --set installCRDs=true \
    --set image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/jetstack/cert-manager-controller \
    --set webhook.image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/jetstack/cert-manager-webhook \
    --set cainjector.image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/jetstack/cert-manager-cainjector \
    --set startupapicheck.image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/jetstack/cert-manager-ctl
```

Let's install the Kubewarden stack:

```
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-crds kubewarden-crds.tgz
```

```
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller kubewarden-controller.tgz --set common.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>
```

```
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-defaults kubewarden-defaults.tgz --set common.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>
```

> Finally, we need to configure PolicyServers to fetch policies from our private registry. See the [using private registry](../policy-servers/private-registry) section of the docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we need to configure Policy Server to fetch policies from our private registry. See the [using private registry](../policy-servers/private-registry) section of the docs.
```

Now we can create Kubewarden policies in our cluster! Policies must be available in your private registry.

```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF                                                                                        
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1      
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: privileged-pods
spec:
  module: registry://<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/kubewarden/policies/pod-privileged:v0.2.2
  rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    apiVersions: ["v1"]
    resources: ["pods"]
    operations:
    - CREATE
  mutating: false
EOF
```

:::caution

> PolicyServers must use the image available in your private registry. Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`PolicyServer` resources must use the image available in your private registry. For example:
```

title: ""
---

# Air gap installation

This guide will show you how to install Kubewarden in air gap environments. In an air gap installation of Kubewarden, 
you will need a private OCI registry that is located somewhere accessible by your kubernetes cluster. Kubewarden Policies 
are WebAssembly modules, therefore they can be stored inside of an OCI compliant registry as OCI artifacts.
You need to add Kubewarden's images and policies to this OCI registry. Let's see how to do that.

## Save container images in your workstation

1. Download `kubewarden-images.txt` from the Kubewarden [release page](https://github.com/kubewarden/helm-charts/releases/). Alternatively, you can find `imagelist.txt` and `policylist.txt` files shipped inside the helm charts, that contain the used container images and policy wasm modules respectively.
:::note
Optionally, you can verify the signatures of the [helm charts](../../security/verifying-kubewarden#helm-charts) and [container images](../../security/verifying-kubewarden#container-images)
:::
2. Add `cert-manager` if it is not available in your private registry. 
```
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update

> helm pull jetstack/cert-manager --version v1.7.1

Reviewer 3: You are defining a version here. But in the command to install the cert-manager you does not define the version. Should we remove the version here as well?

Author: done https://github.com/kubewarden/docs/pull/150/commits/5df0705109afd4b2280d2462080ad48b92b9e9ad

> helm template ./cert-manager-v1.7.1.tgz | awk '$1 ~ /image:/ {print $2}' | sed s/\"//g >> ./kubewarden-images.txt

Author: It already says in the [title](https://github.com/raulcabello/docs/blob/airgap/docs/operator-manual/airgap/02-install.md?plain=1#L19) to do this step if cert-manager is not available in the private registry. Do you think it is not clear enough?

> helm template ./cert-manager-v1.7.1.tgz | awk '$1 ~ /image:/ {print $2}' | sed s/\"//g >> ./kubewarden-images.txt

Reviewer 3: You're right. Marking as resolved.

* No TLS termination is done

Please refer to [this section](../../distributing-policies/custom-certificate-authorities.md) of our documentation to learn more about how to configure the `sources.yaml` file
::: 

## Install kubewarden. 

Let's install Kubewarden now that we have everything we need in our private registry. The only difference with a normal
Kubewarden installation is that we need to change the registry in the container images and policies to our private registry.

Install `cert-manager` if it is not already installed in the air gap cluster:

```
helm install --create-namespace cert-manager ./cert-manager-<Version>.tgz \
    -n kubewarden \
    --set installCRDs=true \
    --set image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-controller \
    --set webhook.image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-webhook \
    --set cainjector.image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-cainjector \
    --set startupapicheck.image.repository=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>/quay.io/jetstack/cert-manager-ctl
```

Let's install the Kubewarden stack:

```

> helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-crds.tgz

Reviewer 3: Should not we define the release name?

```suggestion
helm install --wait -n kubewarden --generate-name kubewarden-crds.tgz
```

```

```

> helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller.tgz --set common.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-controller.tgz --set common.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT> --generate-name
```

```

```

> helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-defaults.tgz --set common.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
helm install --wait -n kubewarden kubewarden-defaults.tgz --set common.cattle.systemDefaultRegistry=<REGISTRY.YOURDOMAIN.COM:PORT> --generate-name
```
